This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Helen Reid:

The problems for resource management and environmental protection in the fishery sector have been considered by this House many times in the past.
This particular communication from the Commission forms part of the Commission s overall strategy of improving the integration of environmental considerations into other Community policies.
The overall strategy of the Commission is to direct fisheries activities towards both economically and environmentally sustainable levels through management of the scarce resource in such a manner as to prevent its exhaustion through overexploitation andor environmental degradation.

The alternative to successful management is the economic decline of the fisheries industry as stocks dwindle and demand for fish products is increasingly met by imports.
I understand I have been described in a Spanish newspaper as an enemy of the fishing industry because I have said such things.
Of course, I am only an enemy of the fishing industry as much as anybody who recommends to some people not to saw off the branch on which they are sitting.
This is an unwise policy.

In particular, the communication calls for control of fisheries pressure to benefit commercial stocks and marine aqua systems, improved measures for nature conservation in the marine environment, in the graded management of coastal areas, improved training, information transparency and a greater contribution from scientific research to fisheries management.
All of the above priorities will be pursued equally at both the Community level and in the various international fora in which the Community participates.
They should also be pursued in the context of the bilateral and multilateral agreements which the Community negotiates.

Whilst the communication reveals the Commission s worthy intentions in this field, it is also revealing as to what activity is lacking and where management and control improvements can be made.
One can quote from the communication.
Overexploitation is so severe in Community fisheries that the scientific authorities have recommended rapid reductions of the exploitation levels of up to  40  percent.
That appeared in the communication published last July.
Since then, the Fisheries Council meeting of  16  December decided on drastic reductions in the total allowable catches for certain species such as cod and anchovy which were in the region of  25  percent for cod and  43  percent for anchovy for the year  2000 .
Furthermore, the Commission adopted an emergency regulation for a recovery plan for Irish Sea cod, effectively calling a halt to cod fishing in the Irish Sea between  14  February and  13  April due to the crisis in the species.
These are examples of the fishery sector facing severe problems due to overexploitation.

What can be done to alleviate the damage done to fishing communities?
The first consideration must be to recognise that Community legislation must be reinforced and control mechanism procedures enhanced.
Secondly, the principles of such Community legislation should also be extended to international agreements to which the Community is a party.
Thirdly, the European Union should undertake to enhance its monitoring and prevention of extensive pollution prevalent in Community waters and which is harmful to marine life including fishery resources.
More controls would be placed to prevent oil spillages such as that of the Erika in the Bay of Biscay and also deliberate dumping of waste oils.

Recognition should also be given to the pressures which the delicate marine aqua system faces from urbanisation of coastal areas.
Such pressures are greatest in Europe.
In this context one can also mention the problems of discards of unwanted catches, fishing gear which destroys the seabed and the destruction of natural habitats by over intensive aquacultures.

A quota management system such as that existing in New Zealand since  1986  is one possible alternative.
Under this system, and given the total allowable catch for a species, a market is created for individual quotas for fishing rights within a certain area which the rightholders can trade amongst themselves, fish themselves or lease the rights to other fishermen for a certain time.
The property right that has been created in such a system is the right to fish  not the fish themselves.
Such a market organisation can reap better longterm prospects for the fishing industry.

At present dear colleagues, we can never be fully informed about the vast ecosystem that is the sea, nor about the multitude of factors which affect the stock of resources in this aqua system.
However, we should never blind ourselves to scientific research, we should never cease to gather information, we should never cease to explore improvements in existing systems and, if necessary, we should at least consider policy changes.
The fishery sectors in Europe face serious problems and I am a great supporter of the fishery sector.
I therefore call upon the Commission and the Council to find the information, the political will to provide genuine longterm solutions for fishing communities and not depend upon shorttermism.
I recommend the report to the House.