This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Bauer:

.
Mr President, avian influenza has affected poultry populations in nine countries in Asia so far, namely Cambodia, the Peoples Republic of China, including the special administrative region of Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Laos, Pakistan, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam.

According to an FAOWHOOIE expert panel held on  3  and  4  February in Rome, the current epidemic is still evolving and not yet under control.
As of today, the disease has taken  18  human lives in Vietnam and Thailand, but a new virus, fully transmissible to humans and capable of spreading from human to human, has not yet emerged.

In total Asia has around  40  of the worlds poultry population and accounts for  25  of world trade in poultry.
There are  6664  million birds in the affected areas.
Already the situation is affecting the worlds grain and meat markets.

This is a devastating disease in poultry causing very high mortality  up to  95  in  24  hours.
Many millions of birds have already died of the disease, or have been destroyed in the fight to halt its spread.

In its sanitary and its economic dimension, not forgetting the animal welfare aspects, this outbreak of avian influenza is unprecedented and, although there is at present no indication of a developing human pandemic, this risk cannot be excluded according to the WHO.

The disease impact is likely to be most felt by smallholders and owners of backyard flocks which form their main food supply.
It may be more difficult to prevent the disease in these flocks than in larger commercial units.
This has the potential to accelerate trends towards the industrialisation of poultry operations in the affected countries and therefore could have some negative social and environmental consequences.

Clearly, the situation affects the European Community at many levels and the Commission, as well as the Member States, has taken decisive action.
The Commission has immediately taken safeguard measures to ensure adequate protection against possible disease introduction in the territory of the Community via imports of live birds and poultry products from the countries concerned to protect both animal and public health.

The Commission has made appropriate arrangements to send an animal health and two public health experts to Vietnam to assist in combating the disease in collaboration with the WHO.
In addition, Member States have also sent experts to various other countries.

We have been, and we will continue, monitoring the situation carefully via our delegations, the WHO, FAO, OIE, as well as governmental and other nongovernmental information sources.
The Member States have contingency plans in place according to Community legislation, approved by the Commission to be implemented in case of avian influenza outbreaks in poultry.
The Commission services are at present scrutinising the plans submitted by acceding countries so that they can become operational on the date of accession.

In the public health domain, assessment of risk to humans is carried out on a continuous basis in cooperation with the WHO and experts from the Member States.
Rapid exchange of information and mutual consultation on guidelines and measures taken or planned by the Member States is ensured via the earlywarning and response system of the European Community.
Further measures and guidelines and consultation procedures could be taken by the Commission should the need arise.
Moreover, the Commission intends to publish a working paper on pandemic influenza preparedness and response planning, which sets out a series of steps to be taken by Member States and the European Community to address the threat of an avian influenza pandemic.

The Commission is collaborating closely with the affected countries to identify areas where help is needed and where it can provide the greatest benefit.
Not only the Directorate for Health and Consumer Protection, but also those for Development, EuropeAid and our Humanitarian Aid Office, are actively collaborating with local governments and nongovernmental organisations.
The EC delegations in the region are actively involved in this process and are coordinating with Member State embassies.

Right now the Commission is preparing a major Community contribution to support Vietnams efforts against avian influenza by the financing of up to EUR 1 million worth of protective and laboratory equipment under two ongoing EC assistance programmes under the auspices of DG EuropeAid.
This will be the largest contribution to date by any donor to Vietnam.
An agreement is due to be signed with the WHO, which should be finalised by the middle of this week.

As time is an important factor, the Commission services at all levels are in continuous dialogue with the World Health Organisation, the FAO and World Organisation for Animal Health, and local authorities to share our experience and expertise in disease control as rapidly and with as little red tape as possible.

I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our staff for this extra effort.

The Commission hopes that all these measures and activities will be successful in containing and ultimately eradicating the disease and that we can restore normal practices in our trade and other dealings with the countries affected sooner rather than later.

The Commission will continue to follow the issue closely and support affected countries in collaboration and coordination with the relevant international organisations and the Member States, and it will adjust Community measures in proportion to the risks posed by the disease situation.