This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sarah Merx:

Mr President, I am very pleased to be here today, to address this House for the first time on my first day as a Member of the European Parliament.
The fact that the World Food Summit has been the subject of discussion and resolutions in this House twice in recent months sends out an important signal as to the priority we place on the issue of world hunger.

Every human being has the right to have access to healthy and nutritional food and a fundamental right to be protected from famine.
Hunger and malnutrition are not due to the fact that there is simply not enough food in the world.
There are currently an estimated  815  million people suffering from hunger.
This is totally unacceptable and we in the rich and wellfed west have a moral obligation to do something about it.

Mr President, if you now permit, I would like to use the occasion of my inaugural speech in this House to say a few words in my own native language, the Irish language.

T an rmed orm bheith in ann freastal anseo mar theachta le haghaidh Cige ConnachtUladh in irinn.
Molaim an deaseirbhs a thug mo ramhtheachta san ras seo, Pat the Cope Gallagher at anois mar bhall do Rialtas na hireann.
Gealaim fhreastail go dograsach ar mhuintir mo Rigin, go mormhr maidir leis na polaisaithe a bhaineann le saol laethiil na ndaoine faoin tuath agus sna bailte beaga.

Chaith m nos m n ocht bliain mar bhall de Coiste na Rigiin agus creidim go lidir ar thabhacht na rigiin agus chumhacht a bhronnadh orthu chun gnithe lrnacha dr saol a dhri dibh fin.

T aithne maith agam ar na ruda sa rimse Eorpach a chuireann faitos ar chosmhuintir iarthair na hireann faoi lthair.
Timse anghar de lucht na feirme agus lucht an isc agus tuigim go bhfuil athruithe mra san aer mar gheall ar pholaisaithe a leas.

Deirim anois go soilir , ionas go mbadh s clraithe, seasfaidh m taobh le taobh le muintir na tuaithe agus danfaidh m polasaithe a chosaint a thabharfaidh saol maith dos na daoine sin agus a gheallfaidh todhcha cinnte dos na glinta at le theacht.

Ar thaobh na talmhaochta, caithfimid an Polasa Comnta a choimad agus a shabhil  na hionsaithe at ag teacht  ghrpa agus  thortha a bhfuair mrn n Eoraip agus an Margadh Comnta Inmhanmach.
Is polasa  a thug seirbhs maith do mhuintir na hEorpa agus oireann s do roinnt daoine dearmad a dhanamh ar an mhid sin agus Tgil na hEorpa a fheiceil mar cheist shimpl cuntais bhainc.

T fhios agam go bhfuil dospireacht faoi gnithe irithe den Pholasa Comnta na hIascaireachta nos dana agus t sil agam go mbeidh seans agam roinnt point a r ar an polasa sud.
Darfaidh m abairt amhin ag an bpointe seo: n fidir le phobal a bhraitheann ar an bhfarraige glachadh leis na molta is dana a rinne an Coimisiin.

Chun crochnu, ba mhaith liom a r go cruinn agus go silir, mar teachta  irinn, go mbeidh aidhm pholaituil amhin agam idir  seo agus an Fhomhair, s sin tbhacht Chonraidh Nice a chur in iil do mhuintir Connacht  Ulaidh chun go nglacfar leis san dara reifreann a bheidh againn in irinn roimh deireadh na bliana.

(I am proud to have be granted the opportunity to serve the people of ConnaughtUlster, Ireland.
I would like to pay tribute to the record of my predecessor, Pat the Cope Gallagher, who is now serving in the Irish Government.
I undertake to assiduously serve the region I represent, in particular with regard to policies which touch on the daily lives of people in rural communities.

Having been a member of the Committee of the Regions for eight years, I am firmly convinced of the important role of regions and the need to empower them to take the decisions on so many aspects which affect their communities.

I am aware that there are certain elements of European policy at the present time which are the cause of concern to the people of the west of Ireland.
I am close to both the fishing and the farming communities and am conscious of the challenging proposals that are in the air in those policy areas.

I would like to state clearly for the record that I will be standing in solidarity with rural communities and I will defend policies that guarantee a decent living for those communities and a future for the generations to come.

As far as agriculture is concerned, the CAP is a policy which must be defended against the onslaught from countries or groups who conveniently forget the benefits they have got from the single market, and the need for socioeconomic cohesion.
The CAP has served the people of Europe well, a fact conveniently forgotten by those who would reduce the construction of Europe to an accounting exercise.

I am aware that there will be a debate later on fisheries and hope to say something at that point.
But I would make one comment: the current Commission proposals are totally unacceptable to communities which are heavily dependent on fisheries.

In conclusion, I would like to briefly state as an Irish Member that between now and the coming autumn I will have one principal political aim, that is to convince the people of ConnaughtUlster of the importance of the Nice Treaty in the forthcoming referendum, in the hope that it may be ratified before the end of the year.)