This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Bush:

.
Mr President, I have been asked by Commissioner Fige to represent him here this morning.
He very much regrets that he is unable to be here himself.

Let me start by saying that the fight against doping remains a major concern for the Commission and one that we are determined to address.
The Commission has taken this task very seriously and has promoted initiatives within its areas of responsibility.
However, the European Community Treaty clearly does not provide for harmonisation in this specific area and, therefore, our actions will have to be guided by the legal framework within which we operate.
In this difficult task, we thank the European Parliament for its continued support, and in particular its Committee on Culture and Education, which has been following this issue very closely.

Doping has been on the Commissions agenda for some time.
In  1998 , the European Council invited the Commission to submit a Community support plan to combat doping in sport.
The support plan formed the basis for pilot projects for a period of two years on the fight against doping between  2000  and  2002 .
Around half of these projects concerned research, the other half information and education.
The European Parliament actively supported this plan.

Three of the pilot projects concerned the World AntiDoping Agency.
An external evaluation, carried out by an independent consultancy, gave a favourable opinion on the type of actions undertaken.
The pilot projects were a positive and encouraging networkbuilding exercise for all those involved.
Secondly, apart from cofinancing pilot projects, the Commission financed three studies on dopingrelated issues.
Thirdly, the Commission continues to liaise closely with international organisations in this field, in particular the Council of Europe.
In addition to these actions, important work has also been carried out by DG Research.

The Commission is pleased to see that Parliament continues to have a strong interest in this topic.
For instance, the hearing of  29  November  2004  organised by Parliaments Committee on Culture was a major event during which representatives of the sport movement made encouraging statements.

At the hearing, Mr Fige underlined that, provided that appropriate funding could be made available, action could be envisaged in three fields: research, information and education.
These proposals would represent a natural sequel to the work undertaken by the Commission in  20002002 .
This is the way forward, given the absence of a specific legal basis to fight doping in sport.
It would be premature to present more concrete proposals in the current environment, given the fact that these proposals depend on the budgetary situation.

Subject to the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty, the Commission will have a basis  the new Article III 282   to develop the European dimension in the field of sport.
In particular, it would enable us to promote initiatives on the moral and physical integrity of young sportspeople.
It is, however, important to prepare the implementation of this new provision carefully.
The Commission is committed to working closely with all interested parties in order to meet this challenge.

What can be done in order to lay the groundwork for the Constitutions eventual entry into force?
To answer that, let me return to the points that Mr Fige made at the hearing of  29  November  2004 .

The first point Mr Fige mentioned referred to actions in the field of education.
Here, substantial contributions would already be possible on the basis of areas for which the Community is already responsible.
Around half of the antidoping pilot projects that received Community funding  20002002  were educationbased.
We are currently examining the possibility of integrating dopingrelated issues into the Commissions activities in the field of education.

The second point related to actions in the field of information.
In fact, amongst the three studies on doping carried out in  20002001 , one looked at the possibilities for a panEuropean antidoping campaign.
This drew on experience from campaigns of this nature carried out in some Member States.
Therefore, substantial preparatory work is already available.
But it is important to note that such an initiative could not possibly be carried out without an autonomous, earmarked financial instrument.

Mr Figels third point dealt with actions in the field of research.
There is already material to build on in this area.
The Commission has helped to foster networkcreation between eminent specialists in the field.
In the absence of a specifically dedicated financial instrument, it may be possible to integrate antidoping research more firmly and more visibly into existing Commission activities.
Funding has been provided by the Commission via its research budget, including the recent CAFDIS and HARDOP projects.
We now have to start looking to the future.
This is why Mr Figel has initiated discussions with Mr Potonik to see whether there is room for synergies between the work of our respective services.

Finally, the Commission will continue to liaise with international organisations and to support the role played by the World AntiDoping Agency.
The Commission believes that the relevant players have a moral duty to join this fight.

To conclude, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its continued support.
It will remain crucial for the Commissions current and future work in the field of sport and will play a key role to ensure the wellneeded progress in the fight against doping.