This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer Cameron:

Mr President, Hong Kong went to the polls in September, for the second time since the former British colony was returned to Chinese rule.
Analysis of the results reveals disturbing trends which demonstrate that all is not well.
Voter turnout dropped to  43  compared to  53  in  1998  and support for the regions proBeijing parties increased in marked contrast to the decline in support for the prodemocracy parties.

I believe there are a number of reasons why Hong Kong voters have opted for apathy instead of exercising their newly established right to vote.
The main problem is that while the election procedure itself is free and transparent it can hardly be described as truly democratic.
Twentyfour of the  60  seats are directly elected on the basis of universal suffrage, where three million Hong Kong citizens have the right to vote.
The remaining  36  seats are returned by a mere  179   000  electors drawn from Hong Kongs powerful business and professional interests as well as proBeijing groups.
Furthermore the legislature has little real power.
The real power rests with the Chief Executive, Tung Cheehwa and his government which, in effect, is appointed by Beijing.
The executive is totally separate from the legislature, which is left to operate more like a watchdog rather than a real decisionmaking body.
The legislatures lack of real power has made voters unenthusiastic about participating in elections which, in their view, are not truly democratic.

Although the Basic Law  which is Hong Kongs miniconstitution  lays down specific criteria for the holding of the  2004  election, it does nonetheless provide for the possible introduction of universal suffrage for the election of all  60  seats for the  2008  election.
However, such a step is resisted by some who clearly wish to protect the power of big business.
Even if universal suffrage were to be introduced  preferably sooner rather than later  it would not solve all the current problems.
It would need to be accompanied by a reform to the Special Administrative Regions political institutions.
The executive has no party base in the legislature, which means that these two institutions are effectively completely separate from one another.

Furthermore, because the executive is not really accountable to the elected representatives and because the latter lack real power, they are also not held accountable for their own political pronouncements and actions.

Consideration must be given to changing the respective rules of the executive and the legislature to ensure an operational interrelationship.
Other matters need to be examined.
They could include the method of appointment of principal officials: should they be political appointments or civil servants, and how they should be held accountable by elected representatives?

As well as problems in this area there is also growing concern regarding increasing Chinese interference in Hong Kongs affairs.
The rule of law is the cornerstone of the one country, two systems policy.
Three recent, controversial legal cases have farreaching implications for the integrity of the rule of law and ultimately for the autonomy of Hong Kong itself.
Two of these resulted in the execution of individuals for crimes they had committed in Hong Kong, where capital punishment is banned.
The third case related to a judgment handed down by Hong Kongs Court of Final Appeal on a controversial immigration law concerning residency rights in Hong Kong for children of Chinese parents who themselves had resident status in Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong Government was displeased with the liberal judgment and invited the Chinese authorities to reinterpret the Basic Law.
Many observers consider that this has created a worrying precedent, which appears to enable China to issue interpretations of the Basic Law whenever local courts make decisions of which either the Hong Kong Government or mainland politicians disapprove.

This situation was further compounded by mainland officials trying to interfere in press freedom and Hong Kongs trading relationship with Taiwan, following the recent Taiwanese election.

As regards my comments on the dominance of the Li Kashing family  which was the subject of much media interest in Hong Kong today  in some sectors of Hong Kongs economy, I should like to point out that the reason I have raised this matter is that it has been raised with me by leading figures in Hong Kong and indeed was the subject of major media debate during a recent visit there by myself.

I should also like to raise the question of visafree access.
I am very unhappy that this has been blocked by some governments.
If we really believe in the one country, two systems approach then this is the one way of underpinning it.
Visafree access should be given to Hong Kongs passportholders without any preconditions.

So far I have concentrated on the negative aspects.
While these events give cause for concern I would not be unduly pessimistic regarding Hong Kongs future.
The one country, two systems remains reasonably intact, but, the real problem is that if the one country, two systems is seen to fail then the ChinaTaiwan problem will be even more difficult to resolve.

In conclusion I should like to thank all those who were involved in the deliberations on this report: my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and members of the Foreign Affairs Secretariat, especially Mrs Opacic, and the Commissioner.