This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Jennifer MacLeod:

.
Mr President, those Members of the House who read the or indeed the will recognise that EURussia cooperation is not always as straightforward as it could be.
I have to say that I regret that deeply.
Why?
Because a stable and constructive relationship with Russia is essential to the EU, and also because a stable and constructive relationship with the EU is essential to Russia.
It is clearly in our interest to try to promote close ties with an open, stable and democratic Russia, acting, we hope, as a reliable partner which can uphold European values, continue reforms, implement commitments and, in cooperation with the EU, play a constructive role in the newly independent states.

The communication which the Commission adopted on  9  February, a communication which heavily influenced the report discussed by foreign ministers on Monday of this week, took as its starting point the interdependence of the EU and Russia and our wish to build a genuine strategic partnership, based on shared values and driven by our evident common interests.
There are positive elements to the relationship, but, overall, we have to accept that the results of five years of increasingly intensive cooperation are not as positive as we expected.
We have to do something about that.

There were three important outcomes from the review of EURussia relations discussed on Monday.
First, a strong, clear and public message was passed to Russia that we expect the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to be extended to the ten acceding Member States without precondition or distinction by  1  May.
The Commission has held intensive discussions with Russia.
We hope that we have been able to convince our interlocutors that the question of extending the PCA must be rapidly settled.
The EU, for its part, is ready, in parallel to the extension of the PCA, to discuss any of Russias legitimate concerns over the impact of enlargement.
I hope that our attempt to resolve this issue as rapidly as possible will not be affected by the formation of the new government of the Russian Federation, with which we will look forward to working in due course.

Second, the Ministers confirmed the importance of the EUs relations with Russia.
It was agreed that the EU should engage with Russia, that we should be ready to discuss all complex issues of mutual interest, and that as part of this approach, the EU should stress that its partnership with Russia is not only driven by common interests but also founded on shared values.
This implies discussing frankly Russian practices that run counter to European values, such as human rights in Chechnya, media freedom and cooperation on the environment.
It also involves not hesitating to defend EU interests vigorously.

Third, the ministers recognised the need for the EU to change the way in which it does business with Russia  to become more joined up, to use the bureaucratic terminology.
It was agreed that the EU should establish clear, agreed objectives and positions ahead of every meeting with Russia.
If we wish to build what can honestly be described as a strategic partnership, EU messages must be balanced and coherent, and our ambitious political declarations must be matched by progress on substance.
This requires better coordination between policies defined at EU level, and the approach of individual Member States to relations with Russia.
Why, for example, is it that the EU subscribes to joint statements with Russia, in which we agree to step up cooperation on crisis management, yet the EU is unable to convince Russia to work with it to resolve the very real problems in Moldova and the southern Caucasus?
Why, in addition, do we see individual Member States agree to facilitate visas for Russia, at the same time as Russia is blocking conclusion of a readmission agreement?

Many of these views are shared by the report which the honourable Member has presented so eloquently this morning; the report is a welcome contribution, in my judgement, to the debate on our relations with Russia.

Our task now is to translate words into action and to establish a more coherent, strategic approach to Russia, reflecting the views of the enlarged Union.
It is important that the EU can make real progress in its work with Russia.
This matters to business people wishing to gain access to the promising Russian market  we should remember, after all, that after enlargement, more than  50  of Russias trade will be with the EU.
It also matters to importers of energy, given Russias position as a major supplier of oil and gas.
And not least, it matters because, if we are to tackle crossborder problems such as environmental pollution, illegal migration and organised crime, Russia will have to shoulder more of the burden than it has previously.

Discussions at the General Affairs and External Relations Council reaffirmed the interest of the EU in promoting integration in the long term, through the creation of a series of common spaces within the framework of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
The Commission has advocated strongly that, once agreement is reached on PCA extension, the EU should be ready to present a draft joint action plan to Russia covering all these four spaces, consistent with our neighbourhood policy and incorporating relevant elements that are of common interest to both the EU and Russia.
This would help to establish an issuesbased agenda, focused on substance, and be a further step towards the strategic partnership that we genuinely want with the Russian Federation.

I would like to thank the honourable Member once again for presenting such a thoughtful report and I am sure it will contribute to the outcome that we both wish to see.