This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Jones:

First, on the presidential elections in Peru, the Peruvian authorities invited both the EU presidency and the Commission to send observers to the elections.
A consultation took place between the Commission and the Member States, concluding that the situation does not justify the organisation and deployment of a full EU observation mission.
Some Member States announced, however, that they would be sending observers on a bilateral basis including, in some cases, representatives of their national parliaments.
They are also supporting the mission of observers of the Organisation of American States, led by the former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Guatemala, Mr Eduardo Stein.

On the human rights situation in Chechnya I have the following comments.
The Commission is also deeply concerned about increasing evidence of human rights abuses in Chechnya.
We want Russia to comply with its OSCECouncil of Europe commitments and seek a political settlement, allow independent investigations on reported human rights abuses, improve the climate for an independent press to operate, and address the legitimate requests of humanitarian operators.
These issues are also mentioned in your resolution.
It was exactly these issues I discussed very directly with the Russian Government during my visit to the region at the beginning of February.

The Commission also reiterated this message through Foreign Minister Ivanov during the ministerial troika on  2  March, where we submitted to him a number of concrete proposals including ECHO assessment missions to Chechnya, NGO access and basic requests, visits of EU diplomats to the region before presidential elections to report on civil conditions, the humanitarian situation, alleged human rights abuses and investigations.
We are still waiting for an answer from the Russian authorities on these concrete proposals.

On the media situation in Serbia, the mounting series of actions taken against Studio B by the authorities last week are wholly unacceptable and we deplore them.
The increasing pressure put on the independent media shows just how important those media are.

The European Commission has made great efforts to support the independent media in Serbia.
In December  1999  we approved a EUR  3 . 3  million programme of support.
We have put aside an emergency envelope of funding which will be able to provide equipment and survival funds for these media, including such television stations as Studio B.
The Commission is allocating new personnel for the implementation of media projects, and our contracts with beneficiaries have been streamlined to try and speed up the process of the delivery of grants.

Satellite equipment is being distributed across the region to Croatia, BosniaHerzegovina and Macedonia.

The European Commissions Europebysatellite service is continuing its support by making available time on its service for independent TV stations in Serbia to broadcast information which will reach the rest of the region and encourage exchange of programmes.

On Iraq, I have the following comments: the Commission is concerned about the unilateral Iraqi decision to oppose the acceptance of UN Security Council resolution  1284  and its subsequent delaying of the operation of the new monitoring instrument UNMOVIC and the easing of the sanction regime.
This will only prolong the crisis in Iraq.
Oil for food remains the best shortterm option to alleviate the suffering of the Iraqi population.
In the longer term, the economic and social situation in Iraq can only be improved by increased economic activities stimulated by lifting sanctions.
Ways should be pursued to engage the Iraqi government in a dialogue on the implementation of UN Security Council resolutions which might lead to a gradual easing of sanctions.

But let us be clear  the key to the lifting of sanctions lies with the Iraqis.
The Commission has, since the Gulf War in  1991 , been the major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq, to the tune of over EUR  242  million.
Another EUR  8 . 6  million is allocated from the  2000  ECHO budget.
The Commission is, however, concerned about the restrictions imposed by the Iraqi Government on NGO operations, which may jeopardise the implementation of ECHO financed humanitarian aid programmes in Iraq.

Finally, Mr President, on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, the Commission welcomes the European Parliaments deep concern regarding the Kashmir conflict reflected in the different draft resolutions.
The international communitys concern for the region is a legitimate one, particularly as both sides possess nuclear weapons and as dialogue between them has, at this stage, effectively broken down.
Precisely because of this impasse and the high risks involved, third parties must adopt a balanced approach.
Third parties may urge both sides to deescalate military confrontation in a structured way and resume comprehensive dialogue with a view to relaunching the Lahore peace process.
Pakistan should be asked to put a stop to infiltration of paramilitary personnel crossing over from their side of the line of control.
India should be encouraged to look for and explore the full potential towards internal political solutions to meet the expectations of the Jammu and Kashmir populations in line with the possibility for enhanced autonomy as enshrined in its constitution.

The Commission believes that a stand on the issue should take the present extreme sensitivity of the situation into account, especially with a view to the upcoming EU summit with India, where Kashmir will certainly be discussed.