This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Smith:

Mr President, honourable Members, when my colleague, Commissioner Patten addressed you a fortnight ago regarding the Commissions preparation for the Madrid Summit, he specifically highlighted the need for the partnership between the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean to be a credible process and for the summit to produce concrete results.

Now, with the summit behind us and after the very comprehensive account that the Presidency has just presented to you, I can confidently say that we have succeeded in our aims.
Madrid clearly proved that the biregional partnership we established at Rio is much more than just another talking shop.
Today my aim is not to provide you with an indepth analysis of the three principal documents that the Madrid Summit produced, the Presidency has already discussed this issue in detail.
The already widely available documents are, as you know, the political declaration, the common value and positions paper and the assessment report on our progress since Rio.

I want to draw your attention to the fact that the assessment report clearly stresses that the European Commission is most probably the most active institution in promoting the concrete implementation of the strategic partnership between the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean launched in Rio de Janeiro in  1999 .

On behalf of Commission Patten, I would like to pick out the most important points to come out of the summit.
The fact that heads of state and government from both regions confirm their conviction that multilateralism is the best way to handle the problems and challenges that face the world today.
Both parties have rejected unilateralism in political and trade matters and have committed to joining forces and promoting a common vision on these significant issues within the framework of multilateral mechanisms.
This represents a strong commitment which will help us to move the partnership forward on a daily basis.

The Commission is particularly satisfied with the outcome of the meetings and events that took place in the context of the Madrid Summit.
Firstly, we were able to successfully complete the European UnionChile negotiations in due time to allow Mr Prodi, Mr Aznar and Mr Lagos to announce the official conclusion of the negotiations and the establishment of our much awaited association agreement.

Secondly, the Madrid Summit provided an occasion for the European Union and Mercosur heads of state and government to note with satisfaction the progress made by the biregional negotiations committee towards the establishment of an interregional strategic association.
They also agreed on a new mechanism for their meetings with greater frequency, so as to strengthen and deepen the EUMercosur political dialogue.
Furthermore, a ministerial meeting will take place hopefully next July in order to provide impetus for negotiations of the trade chapter.

Thirdly, the demands of both the Andean Community and Central America, for the opening of negotiations towards association agreements with the EU were also answered adequately at Madrid.
Significantly, a decision was taken to negotiate political and cooperation agreements with both regions.
It was also decided to strengthen cooperation on trade, investment and economic relations.
These three initiatives should establish the conditions under which feasible and mutually beneficial association agreements, including FTAs could be negotiated between the European Union and both regions.
Evidently, these will have to build upon the outcome of the Doha work programme which we have committed to complete by the end of  2004 .

Fourthly, the  18 th Ministerial Conference of the San Jos dialogue held on the periphery of the Madrid Summit, decided on a renewed agenda and on a new format for the political dialogue.
The Commission shares the view of our Central American partner that it is necessary to keep alive the particular nature of the San Jos dialogue.
The outcome of the Madrid Summit shows that the biregional strategic partnership is now well under way.
Certainly the Spanish Presidencys hard work played a key role in ensuring the success of the summit.

The Commission is particularly focused on the need to lead the EULatin AmericanCaribbean partnership in implementing new concrete biregional initiatives.
In the field of education, the Commission has just launched a brandnew scholarship programme, ALBAN, which will allow  4   000  Latin American postgraduate students to complete their training in Europe.
The existing biregional programme for SMEs exchanges, ALINVEST, will be renewed on the basis of its success.
The ALIS programme has recently started to function and pilot projects in the information society field should soon be put into place.
Additionally, we are currently working on the design of a new social initiative by fostering contracts between administrations and the programme aimed at disaster prevention.

Finally, we look forward to working with Member States and coordinating our initiatives with theirs in order to better implement the biregional partnership.
By the time the next EU Latin AmericanCaribbean Summit takes place in Mexico in  2004 , I hope we will be pleasantly surprised by how much progress has been made in the six short years since the launch of the strategic partnership in  1999 .