This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian McNabb:

Madam President, I recall that when President Prodi first offered me this particular portfolio in July  1999  he emphasised to me the importance of food safety during the life of this Commission.
He particularly suggested the importance of establishing a food safety authority during that period also.
He said that it was important that the consumers of the European Union had the same confidence in such an institution as US consumers have in their Food and Drugs Administration.
I hope that the new authority can deliver on this for our consumers and for our citizens.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank President Prodi for his ongoing support during our work to make his idea a concrete reality.

The wide scope of the general food law covering all aspects of the food and feed production chain that may have a direct or indirect impact on the safety of food has been maintained throughout the first and second readings.
The Commission welcomes this.
We also underline the importance of the wide remit which has been retained for the work of the European Food Safety Authority.
It is important that the food authority builds a comprehensive overview of the entire chain.
This should include aspects of animal health and welfare, animal feed safety and plant health, in particular at the primary production level.
Given our recent food safety problems, it would have been unthinkable to have a food authority that did not cover such matters.

The Commission supports Amendment No  1  which proposes that the authority be called the European Food Safety Authority, while ensuring that the broad remit, which is so important, is not affected.
The Commission can support Amendments Nos  29  to  44  by Mr Whitehead, Mr Bowis, Mrs Paulsen and Mr Staes.
These replace Amendments Nos  2  to  6 ,  9 ,  11 ,  12 ,  15 ,  17 ,  18 ,  20 ,  25  and  27 , which I do not support.
I can also accept Amendments Nos  7 ,  10 ,  13 ,  14 ,  16 ,  19 ,  21  and  26 .
Many of these add clarity to the text or enhance the transparency of the development of food law or the procedures of the European Food Safety Authority.
I also welcome Amendments Nos  22 ,  23  and  24  which adjust the text to ensure that the correct budgetary procedures are in place and that arrangements for third countries, notably EFTA countries, are appropriate and in line with normal procedures for agencies.

The Commission cannot accept Amendment No  8  which would allow unsafe food and feed to be exported from the Community to the original supplier in a third country without any constraints or controls.
This is clearly an unacceptable practice that I am not willing to support.
Rejected food or feed could end up being used either in a third country or being shipped back to the EU and that would constitute a risk to food safety.

From experience, the Commission knows that such practices are also potentially open to fraud and black market abuse.
I do not support Amendment No  28  which refers to the selection procedure for the seat, as well as defining the selection criteria.
However, I note that Parliament is also proposing another approach.
This involves adopting a resolution to the report which calls upon the Council to consider certain criteria in its selection of the authoritys seat.

This House is aware that I believe strongly that the authoritys seat should be chosen on rational and operational criteria that will facilitate the smooth working of the EFSA.
For these reasons I can support the principles expressed in the resolution.
I also support the joint declaration from the Commission, Council and Parliament concerning the members of the management board of the authority.
I believe that Amendment No  37  on the boards size, the selection process and membership criteria achieves the right balance between the different views expressed at first reading by the three institutions.

In conclusion, I should like to say that since I took up office as Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection, I have made it clear that the establishment of the European Food Safety Authority was a top priority.
Community measures which protect the safety of the food supply require a sound scientific basis and the authority will provide this.
The authority is designed to be Europes automatic first port of call on scientific matters relating to the safety of our food supply.

Today we are taking an important step towards the establishment of the authority, towards giving the European consumer the safest food supply in the world, which is our ultimate goal.

I would like to thank Mr Whitehead, his team and Parliamentary colleagues who have worked closely with him on the amendments at second reading, and also Mr Bowis, Mrs Paulsen and Mr Staes.
I want to thank you for the close working relationship that existed between all of us  not just between our two great institutions, but also on a personal level between myself and all four of you.
I discussed these issues with each of you at some stage over the last few months.
In addition, I would like to thank the Council, both the Swedish and Belgian presidencies, and also the Minister Magda Aelvoet, who put her own shoulder to the wheel on this issue on a number of occasions.

I also thank the people in my own Commission who worked with me so assiduously, so carefully and so hard.

Not only do I appreciate the excellent work that has been done, but I would like to thank all those involved for the speed with which this complex proposal has been dealt with.
The spirit of collaboration with which the three great institutions have approached this file has been admirable.
It is clear from the amendments on which Parliament will vote that compromises have been sought which should enable the regulation to be adopted without a timewasting conciliation process.
This will facilitate the establishment of the European Food Safety Authority early next year.

CHAPTER ID 5 
Electronic communications networks and services