This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Alastair Corless:

.
Mr President, thank you for the broad support on the Commission proposal in this important area.
May I express my thanks once again to Mr Sturdy, the rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts in bringing this to a conclusion.
I am heartened that we share a common understanding of the objectives to be achieved by this proposal: simplification, consumer protection and the achievement of the single market through harmonisation.
I would also note that Parliaments deliberations and discussions echo many of the themes and issues raised in the Council discussions.
As far as the Council is concerned, I understand that a political agreement will be sought next week and a common position before the summer break.

Given the consistency in views between Parliament and the Council  views shared by the Commission  I am confident that we can now move forward rapidly towards early adoption of this proposal.

We have made good progress in setting out the legal and administrative framework whereby consumers will be protected from unacceptable levels of residues whilst at the same time ensuring that there is a single market by permitting trade in agricultural commodities.
There are seven specific topics that arose in the discussions on which I would like to focus.

The first of these is the notion of a default limitofdetermination MRL.
This is very important.
By accepting the concept of a default zero tolerance MRL, we have found a solution for residues of the  400  substances we took off the market in  2003  for which the remaining residues should have moved out of the food chain by  2005 .
This means that, if we do not set a specific Community MRL, we do not expect to see any residues.
This should help to avoid nasty surprises in future and give us a legal tool to help fight misuse of pesticides.

The application of a default MRL, however, raises a problem  what to do with all the national MRLs that we already have and that are not yet harmonised.
Here we are introducing the concept of temporary MRLs.
I recognise that the issue of temporary MRLs raises some anxieties, but can assure you that the European Food Safety Authority will be involved in this process.
It does not mean that we are suddenly increasing consumer exposure to residues.
On a positive note, the setting of temporary MRLs will finally achieve harmonisation and will centralise the MRL process, ensuring that high standards are established and maintained in future.

Also on the positive side, our proposal aims to screen these temporary MRLs and to remove those that are clearly unacceptable whilst permitting the existing situation to continue, pending the detailed evaluations undertaken under Directive  91414 EEC.
Please remember that we are not changing any agricultural practices here.
Whatever residues that have been circulating over the past ten or twenty years will still be circulating tomorrow at the same or at lower levels, but not at higher levels.

In relation to agricultural practices, I recognise the desire that there should be a preference for nonchemical methods of agricultural production over chemical methods.
However, this is not the appropriate text to regulate that issue.
Directive  91414 EEC on the marketing and use of pesticides governs agricultural production and I intend to bring forward proposals to amend it later this year.
These proposals will be submitted as part of a package together with our proposals on the sustainable use of pesticides.
I am sure that there will be ample opportunity at that stage to discuss the broader issue of chemical and nonchemical methods.

It is also important to recognise the new role of the European Food Safety Authority.
I am sure that this will improve consumer protection and the scientific basis underpinning decisions taken.
I know what Mr Sturdy said about the support, financial and otherwise, for the European Food Safety Authority.
The Authority should also have an important role in risk communication and provide a reasoned voice in relation to the acceptability of any risks involved.
Not only will consumers be protected; they will be seen to be protected.

EFSA will also be deeply involved in scientific issues.
Immunotoxicity, endocrine disruption, cumulative risk assessments: these are emerging issues where the regulatory science is still trying to catch up with the latest advances in research.
We will be looking to the Authority to help us make progress in this sphere, not just in the context of setting MRLs but also in the scientific data that we will be requiring in the dossiers that industry should be submitting to us under Directive  91414 EEC.

I have already referred to the setting of temporary MRLs as leading finally to the achievement of the single market in this area.
However, let us not forget the global aspect.
The Community is one of the biggest importers of food in the world.
Consequently we also import a lot of residues.
This proposal will set up for the first time a clear procedure for import tolerances, for assessing those residues and for ensuring that only those that are deemed acceptable will be allowed.
This is an important obligation in relation to the WTO: any decisions taken on the acceptability or otherwise of imports will be based on clear procedures and a sound scientific risk assessment.

Finally, the strengthened provisions on monitoring and control measures should boost confidence among all parties and ensure that we have the tools available to justify and to maintain that confidence.

A full listing of the Commissions position on each of the amendments is being provided to Parliament.
I trust that this will be included in the verbatim report of proceedings for this sitting.
( 1 )