This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Amy Finlayson:

.
Madam President, last month nearly  7  million Afghans went to the polls to elect a parliament for the first time in  36  years.
This was the culmination of a political transitional process agreed in Bonn four years ago.

I visited Afghanistan at the beginning of September to look at the election preparations and see for myself the practical impact our assistance is having on the ground.
I was also able to discuss all the challenges ahead and the next phase of the stabilisation process with President Karzai and his ministers, as well as with Afghan civil society and the United Nations.
I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the elections, the preparations for the postBonn period and future EUAfghanistan relations.

The European Union has supported Afghanistans recent election in a number of ways.
It is no exaggeration to say that the election could not have taken place without the European Union, including contributions by the Member States.
We funded  40  of the election budget, contributing EUR  159  million.

We have also sought to improve transparency by deploying an EU Election Observation Mission, headed by Mrs Emma Bonino who is present today.
This has followed the process since July.
It also benefited from the cooperation of an observer delegation from Parliament, led by Mr Salafranca SnchezNeyra, who is here today as well.
I think we can say that the EU EOM was the single largest international observer group in the country.
Its presence was extremely important.

In its preliminary statement, the EU EOM reported that the election day itself had been largely peaceful, the process up to that point had been generally well administered and the elections marked a step forward for Afghanistans democratic development.
Nevertheless, it also noted a number of concerns, for instance with the whole campaign environment, the choice of voting system and the complaints mechanism.
I understand that in some provinces fraud and irregularities have come to light during the counting phase.
The Election Observation Mission has urged the electoral authorities to deal diligently with these concerns.

I would like to congratulate Mrs Bonino for her teams excellent work so far.
I look forward to the final report, which will include an overall assessment of the entire election process, as well as recommendations to improve the conduct of future elections.
Mrs Bonino will be travelling to Kabul again before the end of the year to present the report to election stakeholders.

What comes next, after the Bonn process?
Afghanistan has come a long way since the fall of the Taliban.
I am proud that the European Commissions assistance has had a tangible impact.
We have pursued a combination of visible reconstruction, lasting capacitybuilding and improvements in the daytoday lives of the Afghan people.
We are on track to deliver the EUR  1  billion we pledged in Tokyo for the period  2002  to  2006 .

If we think back to the chaos, devastation and repression in Afghanistan four years ago, it is clear that the country has made progress.
Five million children are back in school, onethird of them girls.
Eighty per cent of children have been vaccinated against measles and polio.
Roads, schools and clinics are being built and many of them are already working.

However, the situation is still fragile and the improvements are not yet fully sustainable.
It is clear that the country still has a long way to go.
More work is needed, particularly on good governance, the rule of law, security, counternarcotics and development.
I therefore very much welcome the idea floated by the United Nations at the end of August of a major international conference, hopefully early in  2006 , to draw up the postBonn compact between Afghanistan and the international community.
The European Union will again be an important participant in the conference.

What should the compact do?
It should focus particularly on Afghan ownership and sustainability.
Lasting stabilisation will not be possible unless the Afghan side is willing and able to take greater responsibility for the transition process and for making it sustainable.
The Bonn Agreement showed the value of clearcut targets and timetables to ensure momentum.
So we should aim to incorporate clear benchmarks in the postBonn compact.
Some form of joint Afghaninternational monitoring of progress would also be useful.
The postBonn compact should be a twoway street: it should contain clearcut commitments from the Afghan side and commitments from the international community to stay engaged financially, politically and militarily.

Finally, I turn to the role of the European Union.
The European Union and its Member States have been playing an important role in Afghanistan.
Together we accounted for onethird of the USD  12 . 5  billion in grants pledged at the Tokyo and Bonn conferences.
EU Member States are currently contributing  80  of the troops in ISAF.
The EU Special Representative in Afghanistan, Francesc Vendrell, has been doing excellent work politically.

Under the auspices of the British Presidency, we are currently discussing with President Karzais Government a joint declaration on an EUAfghan partnership.
It would be an important political signal of continuing EU commitment to Afghanistan.
It would also make clear our expectations, the kind of further progress we want to support in Afghanistan in fields such as governance, development and human rights.
My hope is that this can be concluded in the weeks ahead so that it would be in place ahead of any postBonn conference and could help to shape discussions there.

Finally, I believe that the European Union is both entitled and obliged to play a major part in ensuring the success of the postBonn compact.
The Commission will, in any case, remain engaged.