This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Annette McNabb:

.
Mr President, it is almost exactly four months since we first discussed Iraq, as Lord Bach has said.
I remember saying then that for the Iraqis the hard work was only beginning.
I truly meant it.

Today, the Iraqis have a constitution.
They will soon elect a constitutional government.
But today Iraqis are also aware of substantial divisions that still need to be overcome in the country.
They are now facing two very critical challenges: on the one hand, ensuring inclusive electoral consultations in December and, on the other hand, after doing that, carrying out a comprehensive review of the constitution, which has to be more inclusive.

We stood by the Iraqis during the constitutional process and will also do so during the preparation of the election process and the elections.
By providing another EUR 20 million in support, the Commission was the sole supporter of the United Nations and the UNled constitutional support project.
We feel part of a process that allowed the Iraqis to have their say on the constitution by casting their ballots on the referendum day.

With regard to the elections, you surely remember how hopeful I was in July that we could also dispatch an electoral observation mission.
But today we must accept the evidence that the security conditions do not allow it.
This does not, however, prevent us from assisting in other equally effective ways.
We are providing EUR 30 million to the UN electoral support project.
While I speak, several European electoral experts are working sidebyside with the Independent Electoral Commission for Iraq and with the UN to ensure proper preparation of the elections and also to set up a transparent domestic monitoring system.

But the road leading to democracy and peace in Iraq does not end with elections.
Inevitably, it crosses the path of regional cooperation.
Iraq, its neighbours and the other states in the region are called upon to play a key role by strengthening good neighbourly relations and by cooperating to improve regional security.
I am very happy to say that the SecretaryGeneral of the Arab League, Mr Amre Moussa, has also gone there now and that there will be a conference next year, together with the Arabs, in order to enhance this relationship that has been hampered in the last few years.

Iraq will be a federal Iraq.
Functional central institutions will be set up to support the state structure that the Iraqis themselves have chosen.
To that end, suitable legislative and institutional frameworks need to be established.
Viable solutions will have to be identified rapidly to ensure continued progress towards stability and democracy.

Inclusiveness is absolutely the only way forward.
We shall also consider how best we, the European Union, can help the buildingup of institutions that favour an inclusive approach.
We shall also encourage the efforts of the Arab League and others in the region  such as Jordan, for instance  to promote inclusiveness and national reconciliation.
I am convinced that the recent visit of Kofi Annan has had a positive effect in advancing that understanding among different parties.

The political process and stability in Iraq is important for all of us and for its neighbours.
The recent events in Jordan very clearly remind us of the importance of succeeding in this inclusive approach, which is crucial for the whole political stabilisation of the region.
For the Iraqi citizens, it is very important that they really have the feeling of freedom and can exercise their freedom.
In this regard, we shall not forget that most Iraqis are still struggling for their children to go to school, for their hospitals to be opened in order to fight the most ordinary diseases, for access to water, jobs  the basics  and for their livelihood.
It is an unsustainable situation for any people in any country, and therefore also for the people of Iraq.
Their needs will continue to be at the core of our assistance to Iraq in  2006 .

I should like to elaborate on what we have been doing.
We have supported the political process.
In addition, we, together with the United States, have cohosted a very important conference  the Iraq International Conference  in Brussels on  22 June.
That was instrumental in mobilising international support from over  80 countries and organisations for the Iraqi transitional government and for the institutions for the transitional period before the December elections.
We have also always assisted in reconstruction: we delivered an assistance package of EUR 580 million through the International Reconstruction Fund for Iraq.
We have always tried to work towards meeting the basic needs of the population such as water, sanitation, healthcare and job creation.
We are also working together with two ministries  the energy and trade ministries  on institutionbuilding.

For the future, we want to support the political process for the election.
We also want to set up joint working groups in areas of common interest such as trade and energy.
We want to support the WTO accession request, initiate negotiations for an EUIraq agreement on trade and cooperation and progress on the opening of the Commission delegation in Baghdad in  2006 .

The Union has much to offer beyond supporting the reconstruction process.
We want to be a meaningful partner for Iraq.
The Iraqis are looking forward to that.
We shall meet their expectations.