This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Bauer:

Mr President, just over  20  years ago I had the immense privilege of working closely with Altiero Spinelli when he was the general rapporteur on the draft Treaty that we are commemorating today and I was a young, enthusiastic member of Parliaments secretariat.
It was in many ways for me a dream come true: I was fresh from coordinating the yes campaign in Britain in the referendum on our membership of the European Community in  1975 .
I had been the coordinator of the yes campaign at Oxford University.
I had then led a group of students to Rome to demonstrate outside a European Council meeting in favour of having  novel idea  direct elections to this European Parliament  one of Spinellis main campaign themes at that time.
So to then work with Spinelli was an immense honour and privilege.

I found I was working with a remarkable man, who  40  years before the draft Treaty was already making history when, as a political prisoner of Mussolini  which he was for  17  years  he coauthored the Ventotene Manifesto, which already in  1941  said that: If our struggle against fascism is successful and if we win this war, then it will all have been in vain if it simply leads to the reestablishment of the old system of totally sovereign nation states in shifting alliances.
The main challenge after the war must be to bind the countries of Europe together in a structure that develops their common interests and makes war impossible.

That text circulated throughout the antifascist resistance movements during the last years of the war and was one of the main motivations, the main ideals, that helped spread the European message at that time, well ahead of the European movements convention in The Hague.

Forty years later Spinelli was here helping Parliament to produce its draft Treaty on European Union.
He was a man with great ambition, but who knew when to compromise.
He was a man with daring methods but willing to build consensus.
He also realised that to succeed his project should not be seen just as his own personal project: he was willing to share the credit  the ownership  of the draft Treaty that this Parliament produced.
He himself never referred to it as the Spinelli draft Treaty.
He ensured that there were six corapporteurs from all the different groups appointed to work with him.
He knew that this project was a project of Parliament.
He described himself not as the author but as the midwife who had allowed Parliament to deliver this baby which needed then to be nurtured.
The baby was important.

Initially, it only helped produce the Single European Act.
Many people were not impressed.
However, if we now look back with a certain sense of perspective, we can see that cumulatively it started a process leading to four successive IGCs, the Single Act, Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice and now the Constitution coming up.
Incrementally it has transformed the European Community of  1984  into the quite different European Union that we have today, a Union with a wider scope of responsibility, with at least partially more effective institutions and with greater democratic accountability.
Step by step, Spinellis achievement can now be seen in perspective.

However, the lesson for us within Parliament is that Spinellis method was one of trying to build up consensus.
He said: This Parliament brings together representatives of all of Europes main political parties.
We must use that to thrash out a consensus here and the message can then be taken back home to convince our parties and our governments in our countries and create a political momentum that will be irresistible.
He was successful in building up a consensus.

This was a time, let us not forget, of great euroscepticism  the buzzword in those days was eurosclerosis  and when governments were telling us not to change the Treaties as it would only lead to a step backwards.
The President of the Council, Leo Tindemans, and the President of the Commission, Gaston Thorn, came to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, as it was then, to ask us not to do it.

Yet Parliament persevered and built up this consensus which reopened the Treaties  a taboo subject for many years.
Nobody wanted to change the Treaties: the Tindemans report avoided proposing Treaty changes and the Three Wise Men report in  1979  advised against changing the Treaties.
Parliament had the courage to say that the Treaties must be reopened and our basic constitutional texts must be reexamined.
Spinelli patiently built up a compromise that was supported in the end by  88  of Parliament when it was adopted.
Every single political group at that time had a majority supporting it.
Even  79  of the British Conservatives supported the Spinelli draft Treaty  they then sat in a different political group.
Now they have joined the EPPED Group.
I cannot say they have become more European  perhaps Mr Poettering should work on them a little more.
That is one group that seems to have gone backwards.

Nonetheless, at that time Spinelli was able to build up a remarkable consensus, and it worked.
By thrashing out a project here in this House  which represents the full spectrum of public opinion in Europe  a compromise acceptable to such a wide majority, we were able to set in motion a process which has taken us to where we are today and where the draft Constitution will be the crowning glory of Spinellis efforts.
We must ensure that Constitution is adopted.