This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by James McNabb:

Mr President, I would like to point out that the rapporteur is not present.
I would therefore like to read out a short piece of text.
I have not been authorised to do this, but I am the coordinator of the PPE Group.
I believe that this text, which emanates from my group, at least provides us with a satisfactory introduction.
It is very short.
I would then like to propose that we work our way through the list of speakers to the extent that the Members are actually present.

As I see that you are evidently all in agreement, I would like to read out the English text, which I have taken from EPP Highlights, on the subject of cod stocks in the Irish Sea.

The PPEDE rapporteur, Jim Nicholson, will report tonight on the Commission proposal for emergency measures to control cod fishing in the Irish Sea.
With cod supplies at an alltime low Mr Nicholson is calling for restrictions to stop trawlers from catching juvenile cod.
He also calls for financial packages to be made available to those fishermen who decommission their vessels and for those who stay in port for the duration of the stock replenishment period.

Mr President, I am sorry that Mr Nicholson cannot be here himself today.
Now that I have read out that text, I would like to move on to my own comments.

Mr President, Commissioner, we are today debating the report by the honourable Member Mr Nicholson, whom I would like to thank for his swift and accurate work.
He was working under great time pressure.
Nevertheless, we have not let ourselves be influenced by the urgency of the Councils timetable, and we are very pleased that we are able to give this subject rather more attention today.

Cod stocks and their condition have long since overtaken negotiations on the TAC and quotas and our hard work in that area, but unfortunately in a purely negative way.
That should give us politicians, and indeed everyone involved, food for thought.
Although the price of cod and other fish will rise, at the same time fishermen will have problems making a living and providing for their families in the long term.
The future of an important and historical sector of the economy in our coastal regions is increasingly at risk.
The fishing bans do not now only apply to the specific area covered by the report but have also been extended to large areas of the North Sea.
Stocks have suffered a further drastic fall in all areas.
On a positive note I would like to say that under your leadership, Commissioner, the Commission has reacted swiftly and consistently without waiting for regulations or proposals.

It is now our job to oversee these measures and to jointly learn lessons from this for our future policy.
The Member States are, of course, particularly prominent on the list of those responsible.
But we keep coming back to the same question: why did things have to get to this stage?
Must it always take such horrendous news to stir us into action?
When will we finally incorporate sustainability into our fisheries policy?

The storm warnings for the Irish Sea were not just issued yesterday, nor did they apply to the Irish Sea alone.
Our present predicament demands that we should work together in the interests of consumers, fishermen and fish stocks.
Are we, despite all the Commissions efforts, giving the fishermen affected enough opportunities to put forward their own ideas about resource management and market stabilisation?
Are we working together closely enough at all levels to ensure that the most recent economic developments are promptly reflected in our policy?
If we do not at long last collaborate closely, the next crisis could be fatal for us.
For example, the renewed debate on dioxins is deeply worrying.
At the end of the day, we need to be proactive instead of reactive.
When will we learn that lesson?
How many sectors of the economy still have to give credence to this because of our catatonic state?
I particularly have in mind the chaotic BSE situation.
It is even more important than ever  and this applies across the board  for us to anticipate predictable developments and have the courage to take the wind out of our critics sails.
And that means using not just words, but also deeds.

The proposal before us is a step in the right direction.
In particular, I welcome the flexible approach towards establishing a closed area and the pragmatic use of derogations.
This approach demonstrates that attention really is being paid to the interests of fishermen, by not actually imposing a total fishing ban but instead, where possible, by allowing other fishing to continue, with appropriate monitoring of course.
But at the same time I wish to stress that this is only one step in the right direction.
Similar problems await us in other waters, and even if they have not manifested themselves so clearly to date, the Irish Sea should be a warning for us all.
There is still a great deal to do.
I call on the Council and the Commission, as a matter of urgency, to develop further measures under the fisheries policy, not least so that our actions will really have an impact in future.