This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Roger Whittacker:

.
Mr President, I am extremely grateful for the Ministers comprehensive and very clear explanation on the prospects for the summit with the Russian Federation.
It is of course longstanding good practice for Parliament to review our relations with Russia on the occasion of forthcoming summits.
Parliament may recall that it was briefed at the May partsession before the St Petersburg Summit by my colleague and friend, Commissioner Verheugen, and we are now in the phase of implementing its conclusions.

We have five major expectations from the Rome Summit, which were alluded to by the presidency.
First of all, we want to find a common understanding with Russia on the approach to creating the common spaces, stressing the strategic nature of relations between Europe and Russia.
We should agree on how to do this, for example, by drawing up a joint document, which should contain specific, achievable objectives for the medium term, building on the partnership and cooperation agreement and taking into account the Wider Europe initiative.

Secondly, we want to intensify discussions on the impact of enlargement.
It is in Russias interest that the partnership and cooperation agreement should be extended smoothly to the acceding Member States, without any discrimination.
This is a formality, and one on which we want to tie up loose ends by  1  May  2004 .
If we cannot achieve this, we will need to agree to apply the partnership and cooperation agreement on a provisional basis, as in  1997 .

Thirdly, we will take note of reports on the common European economic area and the energy dialogue, to both of which the presidency referred in some detail.
I spent  18  months myself working with deputy Prime Minister Khristenko on the European economic area.
We were at what one could call the conceptual stage.
I hope that will bear fruit by the time of the summit.

Fourthly, I hope we can reach agreement with Russia on ways to address common challenges.
This means tackling problems primarily in the fields of Justice and Home Affairs, and the environment.
We will, for example, request Russia once again to ratify the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible, and ask Russia to intensify cooperation on nuclear and maritime safety, on terrorism and on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

Fifthly, we are ready to agree a joint declaration on cooperation on political and security matters, including crisis management.
In particular, the European Union expects positive signals from Russia on its readiness to cooperate on the Transdniestrian region of Moldova.
We are also ready to look at ways to step up cooperation on civil protection, in order to make best use of existing structures.

Achieving these results  and perhaps I uncharacteristically understate the point  is not without obstacles.
The presidency has referred to two examples.
One in relation to the Permanent Partnership Council and the other in relation to visa requirements and the negotiation of a readmission agreement.

In making all these points, the European Union will recall the importance of the common values which underpin European UnionRussia relations, and which are crucial with regard to Chechnya.

The Commission has followed recent developments in Chechnya.
As Parliament will be aware, we support a political solution to the conflict and we support all genuine efforts to bring about a lasting peace.

We welcomed the constitutional referendum in March, which we hoped would lead to a peaceful, political settlement to the conflict by providing a platform for genuine dialogue, restoration of the rule of law and the protection of human rights.
It was in our view essential that the population of Chechnya should recognise the legitimacy of the presidential elections held on  5 October.
But the conduct of the elections has raised many questions regarding, amongst others, due process and access to the media.
Also, there are worrying reports of continuing human rights violations.

Let us be clear.
We condemn terrorism in all its forms and we recognise the territorial integrity of Russia.
But we also insist on the respect of human rights and the prosecution of those who ignore such rights.
As the biggest provider of humanitarian aid to the region, the Commission is asking Russia once again to remove all obstacles to the provision of such aid and we are asking for assurances that internally displaced persons will return to Chechnya on a strictly voluntary basis.

I hope that in putting these points to Russian officials once again we will have a better response than we have had on the many previous occasions when we have raised them.

In July, Parliament requested the Commission to consider how to support reconciliation and rehabilitation.
This we are doing, but the most important precondition for assistance  namely security  is simply not met at this time.
In fact, the security situation in Chechnya has, if anything, deteriorated since last March, and it would be difficult even to carry out a needs assessment, let alone to start work.

We are fully aware of the conclusions of the September meeting of the EURussia Parliamentary Cooperation Committee and we look forward to a new resolution on EURussia relations following the Oostlander report of December  2000 .

Speaking for myself, I hope that by the time I give up my present responsibilities my speaking notes for meetings with my Russian interlocutors do not cover nearly all the same points that they did four years ago.