This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Cameron:

.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking those of you who asked for an exchange of views with us on Belarus.
It is the third exchange of views on Belarus since I became a Commissioner.
It is very important, because I share your concerns.
I firmly believe that strengthening democracy and supporting independent information sources in Belarus are of the utmost importance, especially in view of the forthcoming presidential elections.

The European Commission has a strong interest in Belarus being a democratic and stable neighbour and hopefully, in the future, being able to benefit fully from the European Neighbourhood Policy.

Recent developments in Belarus, however, have moved the countrys political system further away from a European democratic system and norms and values, preventing the country from taking its rightful place in the family of European nations.
After the parliamentary elections and the referendum in Belarus last year, which fell significantly short of international standards for democratic elections, in November  2004  the Council of the European Union confirmed the restrictions on ministeriallevel contacts with the Belarusian authorities.
At the same time, the European Union sent a very clear message to the population to tell them that we had not forgotten them and that we wanted to enhance contacts with civil society.

The European Union has consistently condemned the arrests and politically motivated trials of potential opponents to President Lukashenko.
We have called for respect for the rule of law and the immediate release of these people.
We see these actions by the regime as attempts to eliminate opposition leaders, especially in the runup to the presidential elections in  2006 .
The growing repression of political parties, nongovernmental organisations and independent media outlets is of serious concern to us.

We are also closely monitoring the human rights situation in Belarus.
As a clear signal that the European Union cannot accept violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, last year we imposed a visa ban on certain highranking Belarusian officials on the basis of Council of Europe findings.
There was the Pourgourides report on politically motivated disappearances.
We then extended this visa ban to cover the officials considered responsible for rigged elections and also the rigged referendum, as well as those responsible for the repression of peaceful demonstrations.

Our grave concerns about the observance of trade union rights in Belarus have led to an investigation into alleged violations of freedom of association and also the right to collective bargaining, as defined in the ILO Conventions, especially within the framework of the GSP, the Generalised System of Preferences.
The investigation might ultimately result in the withdrawal of Belaruss access to the benefits of the GSP.

Against the background of the worsening political situation in Belarus, the European Union remains very committed to assisting civil society and the people of Belarus.
Here it must be said that the Commission is a major donor to Belarus and in the past few months we have also streamlined our assistance to the country.
A workshop was organised in Vilnius specifically to coordinate our assistance.
This was very important, as it gave us the chance to intensify our coordination, not just amongst the Member States but also with countries like the United States of America and Canada.

We have two objectives.
One is to assist and support human rights, democratisation, civil society and democratic forces in the strict sense of the word.
We pay special attention to support for the media, nongovernmental organisations, the strengthening of democratic institutions and the rule of law.
This is being done through the EIDHR  the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights  and the decentralised cooperation instrument.
Two calls for tender were launched there in March and the project selection has already been completed.
Contracting will probably take place over the summer, so that the activities can start before the end of the year.
There are  10  to  12  projects relating to education and advocacy NGOs giving legal advice to people who have human rights problems.
I hope that the results will be excellent.

The second objective is to support the broader needs of the population in related areas.
By broader needs, I mean the TACIS programme that focuses on support for the population itself in different sectors, including good governance, sustainable development, the social sector, education, health, the environment and economic development, and also alleviation of the problems caused by the Chernobyl catastrophe, which figures prominently on our assistance programme.

The idea of supporting independent radio broadcasting to Belarus has been suggested as an effective and useful response to the lack of alternative and independent information in Belarus.
We have studied the possibilities carefully and will see how that can be managed.
Under our current financial regulations it is not easy to find the right solution immediately.
However, I can tell you that, as regards the difficulties journalists are facing in Belarus, we have a key programme for training journalists and we have already been able to do a lot.
We have provided support for the Belarusian Association of Journalists, for which it is very grateful.
For instance, we gave it our backing as the winner of the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in  2004 .