This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Victor Smith:

.
Mr President.
I am grateful that Parliament has accepted our proposal on official feed and food controls so favourably, and that it has endorsed the need to ensure an improved monitoring system of the food and feed chain at national and Community level.

Allow me to underline once more my appreciation for the intense and productive contribution of the various committees and to stress the importance and sensitivity of the issues under discussion today, which have been raised and explored as a result of Mrs Paulsens excellent work.

I understand the emphasis put on certain aspects, such as increased transparency and the recognition of the efforts of good businesses to produce safe food and feed.
The Commission regrets that its proposal to introduce penal sanctions is not supported by Council and Parliament.
The Commission considers that the use of penal sanctions would be an important strengthening of controls on food and feed operators.
The Commission disagrees with Parliaments and the Councils view that Article 55 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) relate to the third pillar.
On the other hand, it notes that this issue has already been submitted to the Court of Justice for determination in another case.

In these circumstances and taking into account the overall political context of this procedure, the Commission is prepared to withdraw Article 55 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of this proposal, awaiting the Courts determination of the issue and reserves the right to propose again measures providing for criminal sanctions in this field.

Mrs Paulsen raised the question of sensitive treatment of small enterprises and I would refer to the provision in the legislation that provides for a special case to be made in respect of small enterprises.
I know from her extensive experience in dealing with food safety issues in this House, that she will be aware that similar sensitive provisions have been included in the hygiene regulation.
She will also be aware from Commissioner Fischlers recent review of the CAP proposals that special provision has also been made there for the funding of small and mediumsized food enterprises, particularly in rural areas, throughout the EU.

Mr Parish raised the question of import controls.
Third countries must give guarantees on compliance with EU law.
If these guarantees are not given, imports will be submitted to special controls, or not be allowed at all.
Imported food and feed will be submitted to import controls upon arrival.
That control system is based on risk: the higher the risk, the more intensive the import controls.
For example, food that may contain certain toxins will be checked intensively.

Mr Whitehead then raised the question of how we can guarantee that the prior notification system works properly.
There is already a system in respect of veterinary controls, where there is a form that deals with this issue of prior notification.
A modest adjustment will be made to the existing provisions in relation to the veterinary controls to take this particular system into account.
Thought has been given to this; my officials have noted this issue as one requiring attention and it will be dealt with at a technical level.

Mr Parish also raised the question of animal welfare.
As he probably knows, animal welfare aspects are not included in the WTO (World Trade Organisation) sanitary and phytosanitary code and there is therefore no international consensus on the organisation of controls in respect of animal welfare rules with our trading partners.
The Commissions proposal is to conclude agreements with third countries on animal welfare.
The Commission has also raised the matter in the OIE in order to bring the matter on to the international agenda.
There was a conference in Paris a couple of weeks ago that I attended, where the OIE has clearly indicated its intention to upgrade the whole question of animal welfare in international trade.
This legislation also provides for national control measures to be put in place so that the FAO can inspect them and be satisfied that they work properly.

Concern was expressed about the deflection of trade from one harbour to another and whether this would arise or not, owing to different levels of inspection and the application of less expensive control measures, thus creating an advantage for food business operators.
For this reason, the proposal provides for a standard level in the veterinary sector.
With regard to control measures, the proposal will contribute to reaching a harmonised level on import controls.
I believe that the essential elements to avoid deflection of trade are included in the proposal.

Mrs Kla raised the question of the system of inspection fees and why they cannot be regulated at a more central level.
There are a number of reasons for this and some have been referred to by a number of speakers earlier today.
The inspection costs, for instance, are different across Europe.
This is due to differences in salaries, energy costs, etc.
The fees in several Member States are regulated at local level, which results in different fees within a single, individual Member State.
It is impossible for the Commission to exercise its control powers in view of the complicated methods for auditing national or regional financing systems.
Therefore, the proposal on the table is believed to be the appropriate response to this somewhat complex issue.

To conclude, I confirm that the Commission accepts a substantial number of the amendments that have been tabled.
A full listing of the Commissions position on each of the amendments is being provided to Parliament, and I trust this will be included in the record of this session( 1 ).
In the event that there are amendments tabled that are not part of the package, the Commission will not be able to accept them.