This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Frederic Bauer:

.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Lagendijk for his excellent report on the annual report on the stabilisation and association process produced by the Commission in March  2003 .

The Commission and the Council need the full support and commitment of Parliament in our efforts to help these countries with their reforms and in bringing them closer to the European Union.
Mr Lagendijks report touches upon some of the essential issues in our current relations with the Western Balkans.
We have taken note of all the suggestions made in the report and will consider them carefully.

I would like to comment on some of the specific points raised in the report.
Firstly, financial assistance.
We are grateful for the support expressed in the Thessaloniki agenda for the Commissions proposal to increase the CARDS budget by more than EUR  200  million for the period  20042006 , and welcome the fact that the Commissions proposal for the  2004  budget has been approved at first reading.
We will also need to reflect carefully on financial assistance for the Western Balkans, in view of the next financial perspectives starting in  2007 .

Concerning the visa regime, the peoples of the region attach great importance to this issue.
The Commission will hold discussions with the countries in due course, within the framework of the SAP.
This is a longterm issue, however, and has to be put in a broader context.
Any progress in this area is also linked to the countrys ability to implement major reforms in areas such as the rule of law, combating organised crime, corruption and illegal migration, as well as improving administrative capacity, border control and the security of documents.

As regards the Thessaloniki commitments, I believe that work is well under way on implementing our part of the commitments made in Thessaloniki.
I am pleased to report that the framework regulation, which will provide the legal base for the European partnerships, was adopted by the Commission last week.
These partnerships will help the countries to focus their attention on priority areas and will thus contribute to speeding up the European integration process.

Twinning, which involves using the human resources of Member States to help the countries of the Western Balkans, is already being used.
TAIEX, the Technical Assistance Information Exchange Office, which will help these countries harmonise their legislation with the , will be operational in the near future, and preparations to open up participation in Community programmes and agencies are ongoing.

I am pleased to inform you that the feasibility study on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with BosniaHerzegovina was adopted by the Commission yesterday.
The study points to both progress and continuing weaknesses.
Against this background, the Commission thinks that it should be able to recommend to the Member States the opening of SAA negotiations when BosniaHerzegovina has made sufficient progress in meeting a number of shortterm priorities that are central to the implementation of such stabilisation and association agreements.

Croatias application is being dealt with in accordance with the usual procedures.
We received, within the deadline, more than  10   000  pages of answers from Croatia and if all goes well we hope to finish our work on the opinion by March or April.
We also hope that Croatia will be able to improve in areas which are, by the way, indicated in paragraph  37  of the Lagendijk report.

I note the suggestion of a neutral stance on the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro.
The policy of the European Union is to support the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro for the period of the three years provided by the Belgrade agreement.
The terms of the agreement are that at the end of that period, it is up to Serbia and Montenegro whether they wish to stay together.

The Commission has begun work on a feasibility study for Serbia and Montenegro.
This will be a thorough objective assessment designed to determine whether the countries are ready to start negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement.
As things stand today, we need to see further substantial progress on key issues such as the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, cooperation and development in the Serbia and Montenegro internal market and a single trade policy, as well as political and economic reforms.

As regards the process leading to the decision of the final status of Kosovo, let me recall that the European Union supports full implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution  1224  and the standards before status policy.
Like the Council, we welcome the intention of the Special Representative of the United Nations SecretaryGeneral, Mr Harry Holkeri, to set out more concrete guidelines for progress, and to implement the standards before status policy on the basis of a work plan to be coordinated with the European Unions monitoring of standards.

We have taken note that the first opportunity for an overall review will be in mid 2005 .
 2004  is, therefore, an important year for Kosovos provisional institutions of selfgovernment to consolidate a truly multiethnic and democratic society.
Let me reiterate one key point.
Whatever the final status, the people of Kosovo will have their place in Europe.