This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Lynne Smith:

Mr President, the proposal we are discussing today, together with the directives on large combustion plants and national emission ceilings, forms an important part of the Communitys ongoing efforts to clean up air over Europe.
First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Davies, for his hard and dedicated work on this important and complex issue.

The proposal sets target values and longterm objectives for ozone in ambient air.
While the longterm objectives are based on the latest advice from the World Health Organization, the target values have been set with regard to the best attainable air quality.
In doing so, the transboundary nature of ozone and costefficiency aspects have been taken into account.

As I mentioned earlier, this proposal is closely related to the proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings where conciliation negotiations are currently under way and we have to recognise the difficulty of finding a solution for linked issues, for example the target values for ozone, in the absence of a definitive outcome.
At its first reading in March last year, Parliament presented a wellconsidered report including  18  amendments.
Councils common position adopted in March  2001  takes due account of most of Parliaments concerns.
Now  32  amendments have been tabled to the text of the common position.

Amendments Nos  4 ,  15  and the first part of Amendment No  23  all seek to turn the target values into binding limit values.
In light of the insufficient scientific knowledge on ozone formation, the Commission cannot accept any of those amendments.
On the other hand we can accept in principle Amendments Nos  30  and  31  requiring binding target values, save where physically impossible.
However, we would also have to bear in mind that target values would not be attained where it is not efficient from an economic viewpoint.

With regard to the target values, it is not acceptable for the Commission to keep  20  days as the target value for the protection of human health.
The Commission agreed on Councils common position on national emission ceilings, which result in  25  days as an attainable target.
Therefore the Commission cannot accept the second part of Amendment No  23 .
Moreover, Amendment No  23  would set  2020  as a binding target year to attain the longterm objectives.
Amendments Nos  3 ,  5  and  15  follow the same intention.
As there is there is no scientific evidence yet to prove this aim to be feasible, the Commission cannot accept those amendments.
However, the Commission agrees on the general aim fully to close the gap between longterm objectives and current ozone levels and could accept Amendments Nos  2  and  6 .

Amendments Nos  26  to  31  would require attainment of the longterm objectives, save where physically impossible.
Again, this would have to be complemented by taking account of economic efficiency as well.
Therefore, those amendments could only be accepted in principle.
Several amendments would enforce the obligations of Member States to report to the public and the Commission.
The Commission welcomes these amendments if the requirements are considered feasible and useful.
The Commission therefore could accept Amendments Nos  8 , the second part of  10  and  16 .
Amendment No  11  would be acceptable in part.
Amendment No  17 , in principle.
Amendment  32  would complement Amendment No  17  in a way that is acceptable.
The first part of Amendment No  10  and Amendments Nos  18  to  20  and  25  are not acceptable.

Amendments Nos  12  and  14  both clarify responsibilities in setting up shortterm action plans and are acceptable in part and in principle.
The last part of Amendment No  12  and Amendment No  13  are acceptable in stressing the role of guidance on examples for shortterm actions.
The Commission accepts Amendment No  24 , which supports a more effective trigger value to initiate shortterm actions.

There are four amendments on other issues.
Among those the Commission cannot accept is Amendment No  1 , as it is directed towards candidate countries, which is not appropriate for an EU directive.
We can accept Amendment No  7  on tightening requirements to maintain air quality.
Amendment No  21  would require a direct comparison between the performance of Member States in improving air quality and the Commission could not accept this amendment as the proposed comparison is not considered appropriate, in particular, with regard to the transboundary nature of ozone.
As Amendment No  33  incorporates those aspects, it could be accepted in principle.
However, no direct comparison of Member States should be required.
Finally, Amendment No  22  requires special attention to the effects of ozone on human health and the environment and the Commission accepts this amendment.

I consider it essential to put this legislation in place soon, so that appropriate monitoring can start.
Member States need to be able to identify problem areas, so that they can make sure that the publics health is properly protected in the future throughout the Union.
Hopefully a valid compromise will soon be found, having regard to the outcome of the conciliation negotiations on the directive on national emission ceilings.