This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Sebastian Jones:

.
Mr President, I am reminded of an occasion when a senior politician in Ireland was described in very uncomplimentary terms because he was up and down so frequently making contributions.
I will not go any further into the quotation, but will be available for private consultation on it later on!

I would like to thank the House for this opportunity to address the situation in Pakistan.
I know that this is an issue on which there are divided and diverse views.
The Council considers it vitally important that the European Union should continue to strengthen its relationship with Pakistan.
That view is shared by Pakistan itself.

An enhanced relationship between the European Union and Pakistan is not just important on a bilateral basis.
It is also important given the context of Pakistans regional role in South Asia.
I am therefore pleased to note that Parliaments Committee on Foreign Affairs  and I see Mr Brok is here to present its views  last week approved the conclusion of the third generation agreement with Pakistan, and that in consequence a resolution to that effect is before Parliament and will be voted on later.

Parliament is aware that the Council is of the view that the agreement is an important element in building an enhanced relationship with Pakistan.
In such a relationship Pakistan can demonstrate its commitment to the respect, protection and promotion of human rights and to democratic principles, as reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and contained in Article  1  of the agreement.

We all know that serious concerns remain in relation to human rights and democratic principles in Pakistan.
Indeed, these concerns have been outlined in the resolution and recognised in the work of the committee.
I can well understand that the committee needed time to weigh up carefully the pros and cons of the issue and would like to extend my appreciation to the committee members and in particular to its chairman, Mr Brok, and to the rapporteur, Mr Cushnahan, for the work they have done in this area.
I can assure Parliament that the Council is well aware of the concerns that have been aired in the committee and takes those concerns very seriously.

At the end of February this year Irelands Foreign Minister, Mr Brian Cowen, as PresidentinOffice of the Council of Ministers, conveyed those concerns to President Musharraf and to the Pakistani Foreign Minister when the EU ministerial troika visited Islamabad.
The welldocumented revelations regarding Dr Khan and the proliferation of nuclear technology were also addressed.
The EU ministerial troika expressed its grave concern at these revelations.
For its part the Pakistani side assured the European Union that the revelations will continue to be fully investigated.
The presidency hopes this investigation will be thorough and credible.
The European Union will continue to monitor this issue.

There are other political issues which give rise to serious concern.
The situation within the parliament, where the committee system has yet to be fully established, is far from ideal.
Furthermore, on  13  April Mr Hashmi, President of the Alliance for the Restoration of Democracy, was sentenced to a total of  23  years imprisonment for what Pakistani authorities called inciting the army to mutiny.
The European Union has raised and will continue to raise with the Pakistani authorities its concern at these issues and the implications they could have for future EUPakistan relations.

There is also the position of religious minorities and journalists, who have been subject to restrictions on freedom of expression, arbitrary arrest and worse.
We are concerned at all these issues.
Nevertheless, on the positive side of the balance sheet, the third generation agreement would strengthen the platform from which the European Union can convey to the Pakistani authorities at the highest level the importance it attaches to relations with Pakistan and, as part of those relations, our concerns on human rights, democratisation, nonproliferation and other vital issues.

I would also mention that the conclusion of the third generation agreement clears the way for immediate conclusion of the technical negotiations already under way between the Commission and Pakistan on the readmission agreement.
It is important to note that there have been a number of other positive developments.
During the ministerial troika visit to Islamabad the EU welcomed the very important agreement that had just been reached by Pakistan and India on modalities for a composite dialogue between the two neighbours, including the issue of Jammu and Kashmir.
It is in the interests of the region, the European Union and the wider international community that such positive developments be supported and encouraged.

President Musharrafs commitment to the fight against terrorism is also to be welcomed.
It highlights Pakistans crucial regional role, which has a bearing on the situation in Afghanistan and its nascent democratic process.

I would also like to point out, again on a positive note, that significant progress has been made on the issue of the since our last meeting.
Following the very positive moves by the Pakistani authorities in response to repeated European representations, all eight people have been released and have now returned to their homes.
I am certain that honourable Members will welcome this development, as the presidency does.
I am also certain that they will take some satisfaction in it because the vigilance and attention this Parliament has shown on this issue has been helpful.

In summary, while there remain points of concern as regards Pakistan, the Council considers that the European Union must engage with Pakistan on those points rather than isolate it.
The Council will continue to work towards a resolution of these remaining concerns  which are shared by Parliament  in the interests of Pakistan, the region and the Union and, most importantly of all, in the interests of peace in the international community.