This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Mary Finlayson:

.
Mr President, the Commission welcomes the debate here today on a problem that gives rise to serious concern, that of trafficking in human organs.

The victims of this type of crime are particularly vulnerable human beings, in particular children.
Illicit trafficking in organs can lead to significant health risks for both the donor and the recipient.
Trafficking in human organs is an obscene violation of the right to physical integrity and, in the most tragic circumstances, of the right to life, as recognised by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.

The Commission has recently been increasingly informed about alleged situations of illicit trafficking in human organs in Mozambique and Albania, not least through written questions recently addressed by MrRibeiro e Castro and Mrs Karamanou.
It has also been alerted by increasing rumours in the media.
These alleged situations of trafficking are particularly worrying and the Commission is following them very closely, through the Commissions delegation in the regions concerned and in close dialogue with Member States locally, in particular in the context of the political dialogue with these countries.

In relation to the situation in Mozambique, the Commission has contacted the Office of the Attorney General, who has assured it that investigations are under way.
The Commission also reinforced its concern at a meeting in Brussels with the Ambassador of Mozambique.

The reality shows that trafficking in human organs tends to move from the south to the north and from the poor to the rich, not excluding, however, movements within a particular region.
Regional and international cooperation are essential to tackle this phenomenon successfully.
The criminals in this type of activity benefit from the weaknesses of local police, often undermined by corruption, which therefore does not prevent the transboundary illicit trade in organs; as well as from inefficient judicial systems.

It is worth mentioning that the Commission has been emphasising how important it is for Albania to take the necessary steps to conclude an agreement with Europol.
Albania, as I mentioned earlier, is one of the countries alleged to be the scene of activities of trafficking in childrens organs, whose destination is, allegedly, the European Union.
In order to prevent the entry into the European Union of human organs resulting from illicit trafficking, the measures taken to improve cooperation between Member States police services and customs administrations and to strengthen external border controls are of great value.

However, specific measures directed at this type of crime seem currently to be inadequate.
It was in this spirit that Greece, during its presidency of the Union, presented an initiative for the adoption by the Council of a framework decision concerning the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues.
The aim of this initiative  as already mentioned by the presidency  was to define which types of conduct should be punishable in all Member States and to establish minimum rules relating to the penalties for such offences.

The Commission was largely supportive of this initiative, while recognising, however, that more indepth legal and factual examination and knowledge of the situation in the Member States was necessary.
In this context, and in view of the weaknesses detected when trying to move forward the Greek initiative, it is important to mention that Europols competences were extended in January  2002  to include illicit trade in human organs and tissues.
Europol is currently studying this phenomenon and collecting relevant information and data concerning the legal and illegal aspects of trafficking in human organs.
Europol can indeed have a great added value in this common fight.

As far as the collection of information is concerned, I should also refer to the fact that the Council of Europe has recently looked at the issue of trafficking in human organs and that it produced a report in December  2003  that provides a useful insight into the current situation in Europe regarding this phenomenon.
Under the Commissions AGIS financial programme for police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, it is also possible to support projects in this particularly delicate area of criminality, which has still not been fully examined.

In addition it is important to stress that the Commission recognises that the severe shortage of organ donors remains a major obstacle to preventing the full development of transplant services and imposes a severe limit on the number of patients who are able to benefit from this form of therapy.
This shortage of organs can encourage illicit trade.

The Commission is fully aware of the consequences resulting from the shortage of organs and, for that reason, it has indicated as a priority action in its work plan for  2004  for the implementation of the programme on Community action in the field of public health  20032008 , the development of a strategy for the European Union in order to raise awareness and increase availability of organs used for transplantation.
Indeed, the Commission has already conducted a survey of the current practices and legal requirements related to organ transplantation in the Member States and the acceding countries and is in the process of analysing the results.
This analysis will be communicated to the European Parliament, as well as to the Member States, as soon as it is concluded.

In conclusion, a number of initiatives have been launched to combat illicit trafficking in human organs and the Commission will continue to support such initiatives as are appropriate in order to combat this unacceptable trade.