This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Katarina White:

.
I am extremely glad to have this opportunity to say a few words about Bosnia and Herzegovina, just two weeks before the handover to EUFOR on  2  December.
The launching of the ALTHEA mission is an important event: important because it will be the first significant military operation undertaken under the European Security and Defence Policy.
The transfer from NATO has required long and detailed discussions because it was crucial to get things right from the very start.
My colleagues Mr Solana and Mr de Hoop Scheffer deserve a great deal of credit for securing a successful outcome.

I know some will be concerned that a brand new military mission in Bosnia sends a signal that the country continues to suffer from significant instability.
That would, in my judgement, be an entirely wrong conclusion to draw.
Last Spring the North Atlantic Council Ministerial Meeting noted an improved security environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
As a result they decided to reduce the number of troops committed to SFOR from  12   000  to  7   000 .
I have been visiting Bosnia for several years and I can personally attest to the transformation which has come over the country during that period.

It would be the height of folly to take for granted the undoubted improvements which have occurred.
All that is happening is that Europe is taking on more direct responsibility for its own continent  not before time, some might say.
However, there will be a review of the operation every six months.
This will take account of its duration, as well as its size and configuration.
There is no question of keeping troops in Bosnia unnecessarily; as soon as conditions permit, the number of troops can be reduced and eventually the mission will come to an end.

It is important at this time to recognise that Bosnias European future will assume growing importance as the military presence continues to reduce in size.
Bosnia, like all the countries of the Western Balkans, has a clear European perspective as a potential candidate country.
Last November the Commission published a feasibility study setting out  16  points on which the country needed to make significant progress before a recommendation could be made to the European Council to start negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement.
Although there has been progress since then, I am disappointed to end my mandate as Commissioner without being able to give Bosnia the green light.
I very much hope that my successor, Commissioner Rehn, will be able to do so early in his new mandate.
Once he did so, the Council would have to accept his assessment and a negotiating mandate would then have to be agreed.
Only then could negotiations start.
There is no reason why they could not do so some time during  2005 .
If Bosnia is to make progress on this timescale, a number of things are required.

First, the authorities have to make further progress on the legislation associated with the  16  points.
Much has been done here, but there are continuing blockages in areas like VAT and public broadcasting.

Second, Bosnia has to recognise that passing laws has little utility if they are not implemented properly.
There is still a great deal of work to be done here.

Third, the Commission indicated in the feasibility study that it would expect proper cooperation with the High Representative in his reform agenda, as provided for in the Dayton Paris Peace Accords.
One crucial area here is the question of police reform.
I very much hope that, by the end of the year, Mr Wilfried Martens will be able to report agreement on the way forward.

Finally, there is the question of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Bosnia Herzegovina is a member of the United Nations and a signatory to Dayton.
As I have made clear on a number of occasions, there can be no dilution of the absolute requirement for full cooperation with the Tribunal.
This is fundamental to Bosnias prospects for further movement through the stabilisation and association process.
It is a crucial test of Bosnias commitment to its international obligations and to the rule of law.
It is also a fundamental part of the process of allowing the victims of the atrocities to let go of the past.
Allowing those accused of terrible human rights abuses to remain free makes it impossible for the communities to be properly reconciled.
Next week the Chief Prosecutor, Mrs Carla del Ponte, will be reporting to the United Nations Security Council on the cooperation of the countries of the Western Balkans with the Tribunal.
Up until now, she has been quite clear that Republika Srpska has not been cooperating at all.
It is indeed a disgraceful matter that not one indictee has been transferred by the Republika Srpska to The Hague, although there are reports today that some war crime suspects have been arrested by Republika Srpska for trial locally.
This is welcome news, but Republika Srpska will be judged by the international community on its cooperation with the Tribunal on cases which fall under its jurisdiction.
It is on that issue that Mrs del Ponte will be reporting to the Security Council.
I have no reason to expect that her report will be positive on Republika Srpska.
If that is indeed the case, Lord Ashdown will have to consider his response.
Certainly, it is intolerable that the prospects for the whole country to make progress towards joining the European Union and NATO are being compromised in this way.
I urge the political leadership of Republika Srpska to take action now to fulfil their obligations.
If they do not, they will be responsible for any consequences which flow from their failure.

Honourable Members, the people of Bosnia Herzegovina suffered the most from the Balkan wars in the  1990 s.
Now they have emerged from that terrible period and have a clear chance of creating a real country with a genuine prospect of joining our European family.
As I leave the Commission, I wish them every success and I look forward to hearing of their progress in the months to come.