This is a transcript of a European Parliament speech by Nancy Smith:

Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking Mr Florenz for the work carried out in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the cooperation with the Commission.

Let me briefly recall why we are tackling the specific problem of electrical and electronic waste.
It is the fastestgrowing part of the waste stream, indeed it is growing three times faster than the average.
Each of us produces on average about  14  kgs per year of this waste and by the year  2010 , when this directive is fully operational, electrical and electronic waste will account for over  8  of the entire municipal waste stream.
Once adopted and implemented the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment will allow us to divert this type of waste from landfills and incinerators to environmentally sound reuse and recycling.

The directive on restricting hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment will prevent the presence of unnecessary hazardous substances, posing risks for human health and the environment in various stages of the lifecycle of such equipment, including its waste management.

The work undertaken by the European Parliament substantially reinforces the original proposal, and I welcome the majority of the amendments tabled.
In particular I support the strengthening of individual financing, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment, and limiting collective systems to those cases where these are necessary for practical reasons.
This can help to internalise waste management costs into the product price and give incentives for a better design for reuse and recycling.
It is a first step towards fuller integration of environmental considerations into product design and consumption patterns.

We also need to find appropriate solutions for the financing of historical waste put on the market before the entry into force of this directive.
One of the options to achieve this may also be the use of a visible fee.
This should, however, be done in line with Articles  88  and  89  of the Treaty.

I welcome the principle of increasing the collection target to  6  kgs per capita and per year, though the timetable foreseen needs to be more realistic and take into account the time needed to collect and process data.

I also support the proposal to advance the phaseout date for the substance bans in the RoHS directive to  2006 , though this should be done in accordance with the principles set out in Article  95  of the Treaty.

Let me also answer some of the points raised during the debate.
I can assure you that we have carefully evaluated all aspects of this proposal, including its costs.
For the overall target of  4  kg per capita collected waste, we estimate that the costs will be in the region of EUR  500  to  900  million.
We also base our estimates and evaluation on the existing systems, of which there are not many: the Netherlands is the one example from which we can draw conclusions and learn lessons.
These figures have been confirmed by practical experience, for example in the Netherlands.
If Parliament wants to increase the collection target, this is obviously a political decision, and we agree with that.

When it comes to subsidiarity, we have tried to strike an appropriate balance between harmonising certain elements of the proposal and leaving others to subsidiarity.
This is why the way the collection systems operate is left to the Member States.
We also think it is not necessary to define at Community level who is to finance the collection point up to the moment the equipment is brought to it.
This is why we reject both Amendments Nos  69  and  83 .

What about small and mediumsized enterprises?
The Committee on the Environment has voted in favour of deleting a temporary exemption for SMEs from the financing obligations of the directive.
We can accept this point as we think that practice has shown that there are no excessive costs for these companies and that such an exemption is not needed, and it might even lead to market distortions.

Mr Blokland, I hope that any day now we will be able to present the batteries proposal and I am working hard on that.

Finally, a total of  82  amendments have been tabled on the WEEE directive and  18  on the RoHS directive.
On the waste electrical and electronic equipment proposal, the Commission can accept  32  amendments in full, two in part and  20  in principle.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos  9 ,  1119 ,  24 ,  2737 ,  39 ,  40 ,  43 ,  44 ,  45 ,  50 ,  57 ,  65 ,  76  and  77 .
In Amendment No  23 , the Commission supports a new paragraph  1  and paragraph  1 (b), last subparagraph in full and paragraph  1 (b), third and fourth subparagraphs as well as paragraph  2  in principle.
In Amendment No  73 , the Commission can accept the first part.
In Amendments Nos  1 ,  3 ,  5 ,  6 ,  7 ,  10 , the first, third and fourth sentences can be accepted in full.
In Amendments Nos  20 ,  21  and  41 , the first sentence can be accepted in full.
Amendments Nos  42 ,  48 ,  49 ,  5155 ,  66 ,  78  and  92  can be accepted in principle.

On the RoHS proposal, the Commission can accept four amendments in full, one in part and seven in principle.
The amendments acceptable in full are Nos  3 ,  4 ,  10  and  17 .
Amendment No  5  can be accepted in part  first paragraph  and in Amendments Nos  2 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8  and  9 , the first paragraph can be accepted in full and Amendments Nos  13  and  15  in principle.

I thank all Members for this important debate.